.. _getting_started:

Getting Started
================

Documents
~~~~~~~~~~

Let's start by clarifying the most important concept first: the document. For
Papermerge a document is anything which is a good candidate for archiving -
some piece of information which is not editable but you need to store it for
future reference. For example receipts - you donâ€™t need to edit receipts or
read them everyday, but eventually you will need them for your tax
declaration. In this sense - scanned documents, which are usually in PDF or
TIFF format, are perfect match.

Another important thing - if you take a picture of a paper document with your
mobile phone - you'll have a file in jpeg format (or maybe png file format).
In context of Papermerge that picture of a document (though just a single jpeg
file) is a valid one page document. Generally speaking, pictures of the
documents produced by your camera - might be regarded as bad quality scans.

On the other hand, if you take a picture of a flower and upload that jpeg
image to Papermerge - the 'document' will be processed. However, that jpeg
format flower image is not a document in Papermerge sense.

Usually office formats with .docx (Microsoft Word), .odt (Libre Office), .txt
(plain text) are not good candidates for archiving - as by their nature they
are meant to be changed/edit regularly. However, once converted to PDF format
(for instance Contract_C2.docx to Contract_C2.pdf) they are full fledged
documents in Papermege sense.

By default, Papermerge works with documents in 4 (four) file formats: pdf,
tiff, jpeg and png. However, many other formats (even email messages) can be
imported as documents by converting incoming file *automatically* to PDF
format. This is possible due to :ref:`document_pipelines` feature.

Optical Character Recognition (OCR)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

OCR is a technique that extract **text** information from **binary image formats**.


Tags and Folders
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Organizing documents in folders is very common. Thus the idea of keeping your
documents in folders doesn't need further introduction. It may be worth
mentioning that folders are hierarchical i.e. one folder can contain other
folder(s) as well. This nesting (folder in folder) ca be arbitrarily deep.

The idea of using tags to organize your documents
may be new for you though. Tags are kind of labels. You can associate
(add) tags to a document or to a folder. Tags have a color and a name. Once
tagged, documents can be searched by their tags. Conversely, is it also
possible to show all the documents tagged with a particular tag(s).

Both tags and folders complement each other and provide you with powerful
means to stay organized. Learn more details about tags :doc:`here
<tags_and_folders>`.

Page Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Many times scanning documents in bulk yields documents with blank pages; some
pages my be out of order or maybe part of totally different document. Even if
you notices these flaws immediately it is time consuming and frustrating to
redo scanning process. Papermerge helps your with your scanned documents like
no other tool. With Papermerge you can delete blank or erroneous pages, you
can move pages from one document into another (with cut and paste) and most
importantly you can reorder document pages in case you need to do so.

There is a separate chapter about :doc:`page_management` where you can learn
details about this feature.


Metadata
~~~~~~~~~~~